## SIR Model
### About This Project

This is a test project to get used to using Git and GitHub.

The purpose of this project is to create a SIR model in R.
An SIR model is a model that describes the spread of a disease in a population, placing individuals in compartments based on their infection status.
The compartments are susceptible (S), infected (I), and recovered (R).
The model is described by the following equations:

```math
\begin{align}
\frac{dS}{dt} &= \mu (N - S) -\beta S \frac{I}{N} \\
\frac{dI}{dt} &= \beta S \frac{I}{N} - \gamma I - \mu I \\
\frac{dR}{dt} &= \gamma I - \mu R
\end{align}
```

```math
\begin{align}
\mu &= \frac{1}{50*52} \\
\beta &= 2 \\
\gamma &= \frac{1}{2} \\\\

N &= 1.0 \\
S_0 &= 0.999 \\
I_0 &= 0.001 \\
R_0 &= 0.0
\end{align}
```

Here, $\mu$ is the mortality and birth rate, $\beta$ is the contact rate multiplied by the per-contact transmission probability, and $\gamma$ is the recovery rate.
The units for this are weeks, so the life expectancy is 50 years, and the duration of infection (inverse of recovery rate) is 2 weeks.

Most of the code is adapted from Ottar Bjornstad's *Epidemics: Models and Data in R* (2018) book. You can find the code at his GitHub repository [here](https://github.com/objornstad/epimdr). Specifically, it uses code from chapter 2.

### Repository Structure

```
.
├── data/
├── figs/
├── funs/
├── out/
└── src/
```

- `data/` contains raw data.
- `figs/` contains figures generated by the code.
- `funs/` contains user-defined helper functions.
- `out/` contains intermediate data and output files.
- `src/` contains scripts for analysis.

### Built With

- [R version 4.2.1 (2022-06-23)](https://cran.r-project.org/bin/macosx/)
- [`{renv}`](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/articles/renv.html) for package management
- [`{deSolve}`](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/deSolve/index.html) for solving differential equations

### Getting Started

I've used the `{renv}` package to manage the R environment for this project.
For more details on how to use `{renv}`, see [this article](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/articles/renv.html), but in brief, it creates a snapshot of the installed packages and their versions.

To get started, you will need to install `{renv}` as usual (i.e., `install.packages("renv")`), and then run `renv::restore()` to install the packages that are used in this project (the record in the ***renv.lock*** file).

### Usage

To run the SIR model, you can open the ***src/sir_model.R*** file and run the code as usual.

### License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details

### Contact

You can contact me via my email: "arnold *dot* crk *at* gmail *dot* com".

### Acknowledgements
